# XModule Reference: External Boost.Build 
Build external Boost.Build sources with **b2**

## Main target rules

* **xbuild**  
  When given a ``Jamfile`` source, **b2** will _build_ external sources. The target that this rule names is the directory and repository in which this build occurs.

* **xdist**  
  When given an XBUILD repository source generated from a ``Jamfile``, Processes _xpatch_ and _xaction_ properties in the _xdist_ repository directory. The target that this rule names is the directory and repository in which files are 'installed'.

  Aside from _xpatch_ and _xaction_ properties, this target is a placeholder for the directory. All building is done in the **b2** XBUILD target actions.

## Features

### XBUILD 

Control **b2** _build_ actions of the XBUILD derived type XB2_BUILD with properties based on these features:
  
* <**xbuild-arg**> _ARG_  
  _ARG_ is passed to **b2** plainly.
  When not set, **b2** receives no argument, building default target(s).  

* <**xbuild-jobs**> _N_  
  Passed to **b2** with the ``-j`` flag.  
  Defaults to a value proportional to invoked Boost.Build executable's ``-j`` value.  

* <**xb2-build-dir-arg**> _prefix_  
  Combined with the absolute-path to the XBUILD repository location as a prefix and passed to **b2**.  

* <**xb2-dist-arg**> _prefix_  
  Combined with the absolute-path to the XDIST repository location as a prefix and passed to **b2**.  
  
* <**xb2-bootstrap**> _script_  
  Script to execute to bootstrap xb2-build process.
  
* <**xb2-bootstrap-build-dir-arg**> _prefix_  
  Combined with the absolute-path to the XBUILD repository location as a prefix and passed to the _xb2-bootstrap_ script.
  
* <**xb2-bootstrap-dist-arg**> _prefix_  
  Combined with the absolute-path to the XDIST repository location as a prefix and passed to the _xb2-bootstrap_ script.


* <**xb2-toolset-options**> _options_  
  Additional _options_ in <_feature_>_value_ property form for external Boost.Build toolset, in addition to those configured via [xtoolset](xmodule.md#xtoolset) features.

### XDIST

All processing is done for **b2** XBUILD stage.

This target exists for access to, and processing on, installation or staging files.

* <**xdist-arg**> _arg_  
  Ignored. Use _xbuild-arg_.

* <**xdist-jobs**> _N_  
  Ignored. Use _xbuild-jobs_. 

* <**xdist-location**>  
  Control location of 'xdist' directory. 
  TODO: Document & Test 

* <[xpatch](patch.md)> _patch-file_  
   Patch files
   
* <[xaction](action.md)> _@action-or-rule_
   Execute actions
   
### XModule

 * <[xworkspace](xmodule.md#workspaces)>, and related features  
   Control workspace of external build
   
### XToolset

* <[xtoolset-_subfeatures_](xmodule.md#xtoolset)>  
  Control the toolset used by external Boost.Build system.
  
  In this case of **b2** based builds, the relevant [xtoolset](xmodule.md#xtoolset) _subfeatures_ are used to create a _toolset-config.jam_ file:
  
  ```
  using $(TOOLSET) : $(TOOLSET_VERSION:E=) 
    : $(XTOOLSET_CXX:J= )
    : <archiver>"$(XTOOLSET_AR)" 
      <ranlib>"$(XTOOLSET_RANLIB)"
      <cflags>"$(XTOOLSET_CFLAGS)"
      <cxxflags>"$(XTOOLSET_CXXFLAGS)"
      <linkflags>"$(XTOOLSET_LINKFLAGS)"
      $(XB2_TOOLSET_OPTIONS)
    ;
  ```
  
  Upper-case variables are sourced from properties with matching feature names.

  **toolset-config.jam** is loaded via ``--user-config=`` argument to **b2**. 
  
  By default, all configured toolset properties are inherited from the Boost.Build toolset associated with the target. If you are trying to set one or more of these properties instead of adding additional values, use the _xtoolset-forfeit_ feature to prevent inheritance.

  If the _toolset_ subfeature is not inherited, _toolset-config.jam_ is not created, and default toolset will be used.

## Notes

### Workspace files

* _workspace_/**b2**/toolset-config.jam
* _workspace_/**log**/b2-bootstrap.log
* _workspace_/**log**/b2-build.log

### Serialization

XBUILD and XDIST actions execute in serial by using a [JAM_SEMAPHORE](http://www.boost.org/build/doc/html/jam/language.html#jam.language.variables.builtins.semaphores). This mitigates CPU, memory and other resource utilization.

## Boost.Build Type Reference

Type | Base Type | Infer from source file | Generate from | Notes
--- | --- | :---: | :---: | --- 
XJAMFILE | | ``*.jam`` | |
XJAMROOT | | ``Jamroot``, ``Jamroot.jam`` | |
XUSER_JAMFILE | | ``Jamfile``, ``Jamfile.jam``
XB2_BUILD | XBUILD | | XJAMROOT \| XUSER_JAMFILE | build and install/stage
XB2_DIST  | XDIST  | | XB2_BUILD | [xpatch](patch.md) and [xaction](action.md) processing on _xdist_ repository 
